Attached are 4 files that were used for 3D printing components for the sampling and analysis of pit latrine excreta in Kampala, Uganda. 

The Valve Flap and Valve Body comprise the Non-Return Valve that is used to retain the excreta within the sludge sampler. 
The Valve Body design terminates with a 60mm outer diameter (OD) shaft. If the Valve Body is printed in Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene plastic (ABS), the 60mm shaft can be bonded to a standard 60mm Polyvinyl Chloride plastic (PVC) plumbing fitting using Plexus MA310 marine adhesive (or a similar ABS-PVC adhesive). 
At the current scale, a 1.5mm thick rubber gasket should be glued to the underside of the Valve Flap to ensure an effective seal on the retaining lip within the Valve Body. This can be effectively achieved using standard cyanoacrylate adhesive (superglue). After attaching a (slightly oversized) rubber gasket to the underside of the Valve Flap, a small blade can be used to carefully chamfer the edges of the gasket, especially below the hinge point. This should ensure that the Valve Flap moves easily within the Valve Body and that the Valve Flap makes an effective seal against the Valve Body.
Once the gasket has been attached and satisfactorily chamfered, the Valve Flap should be inserted into the Valve Body (diagonally through the bottom opening) and then an M3 stainless steel threaded bar can be used as a static hinge pin, around which the Valve Flap rotates. The M3 threaded bar should be cut to the appropriate length, and then a washer and two nuts can be used to secure the threaded bar to the Valve Body. Because the hole in the Valve Flap has sufficient clearance to rotate about the M3 threaded bar, the hinge pin can be secured to the Valve Body using silicon to seal the holes in the Valve Body, and Loctite to ensure the M3 nuts remain locked to the threaded bar.

The 60mm to 63mm Adaptor can be used to connect a commercially available 63mm PVC Ball Valve above the Non-Return Valve. Provided the Adaptor is also printed in ABS, the Ball Valve can be bonded to the Adaptor using the same Plexus MA310 adhesive, and then the adaptor can be bonded to the appropriate 60mm PVC plumbing fittings.

Once the Non-Return Valve and Ball Valve have been bonded to the plumbing fittings, the Plexus MA310 adhesive can be used to connect 1m sections of 60mm OD Acrylic pipe to more 60mm PVC plumbing fittings, thus completing a set of components which can be coupled together to make a long sludge sampler.

The final component in this repository is a Cylinder Cap that was used to set up a viscosity test in a 500mL plastic measuring cylinder. The Cylinder Cap is sized for a measuring cylinder with an internal diameter of 50mm, but it can be scaled accordingly as required. The Cylinder Cap allows a large weighted ball to drop along the centre of the measuring cylinder, whilst remaining tethered to a smaller ball which runs up the outside of the measuring cylinder. The Cylinder Cap acts as a runner for the monofilament line connecting these two balls to ensure they move in the correct trajectory. This mechanism was used to measure the rate at which the large ball sinks in the medium contained in the measuring. If the ball reaches terminal velocity, one can then use Stoke's Law to estimate the viscosity of the liquid within the measuring cylinder.
